To set up Google login, we will first install a package which is Google OAuth Provider.
To install the package, go to your terminal and enter the command npm install react-oauth-google
After this, go to your VS Code and go to your main.jsx.
First of all, we will import the package.
import google-oauth-provider
After this, we will use Google OAuth Provider at the top.
Now open and close both the stack.
Now I will put the package as is.
Now Google OAuth provider is covering you.
Now while importing you will find it using this application
Next we will go to our login page.
Now now what we should do is
Means, we have Google Luna Logon and Google OAuth Provider's package.
so we will import it in this way
so what google login does
it makes the button of google login
for you
so as you use this thing
your google login button gets created
and for this
what we will do is
we have given you a simple code
with which you can directly implement the button
so for this
first I will remove something from it
and here we
put something like this
and here
as soon as you put this code
your google login button will be created
so next time we will check our webpage
we will go to our webpage
so you can see
that google login button is showing here
as soon as you click on google login button
then a popup opens here
this popup opens
but this popup is blank
why is it blank
because in this popup a client id is required
and we have not given that client id
and how to make a client id
we will tell you that
first we will set up our login page
then we will put a client id
and as soon as we put a client id
it will work
so we
go back to vs code
and here first thing
we make a div
div
and we saw that
behind our login page
we put a background image
how we put that background image
for that we have given you a background image
in the link section
so that background image
called bg.jpg
you have to take that
and you have to put that in your assets
so you have to put that in your assets
and after that
logo.png
you have to put that in your assets
and there is one more photo
called profile.jpg
you have to put that in your assets
after downloading
you have to save all these things
in your assets
after that
we go to login
here we have given our class name via bg
after giving bg
we have put brackets here
now what we will do
we will write url
then we will put path
so now what we will do
to add background image
we will use something like this
bg url
so here we will write
slash source slash components
components slash assets
and here we will
do something like this
so what will happen
that our
main div
in that
an image will be added in the background
and we will close the div
by using div
so we have closed it
and our background image has been added
now after this
we have to put bg cover
now if we put bg cover
it will cover the whole page
so what will it do
the image will be in the center of the page
ok
now let's do one thing
let's go to our web page
and here
let's see
we can't see the image
so let's check
why we can't see the image
so
let's go back
and let's see
after assets we have to write
slash bg dot
bg dot jpg
right like this
ok now we will go to our browser
and
after going to our browser
when we will see
our image has been loaded
so it is only showing this much
because it is only covering the google login page
now we will put it in the center
so it will cover the entire height
so now we will configure it properly
we will go back
to the vs code
and after going to the vs code
here I will do one more thing
some steps
ok
now what we will do here
we will put an image here
first we will put an image
before the google login button
what will the image do
we will put the icon of our portfolio builder
did we put the image in the source
we put the logo in the source
so we import the logo directly
so we import the logo
import
logo from
and dot
forward slash
assets
slash logo dot png
like this
we will import something
and here in the source
we will set the logo
ok
and here we will write
logo
ok
and here we will write
logo
ok
here we will give Z-index 10
so that the background image doesn't go behind the page
and we will give it some brightness
brightness will make it brighter and will make it white
so we will give it some brightness
now after this
we will go to our web page
as you see the web page
it is normal now
it is login with google
and after this
we will add one more thing
we will create a div below this
and the div
we have saved it
we will create a div
and in div we will give a class name
first we will give mxauto
so it will be in the center
hscreen
hscreen covers the entire screen
means the image will be shown in the entire screen
ok
now we will add one more thing
rounded md
so basically
the button will be rounded
after this
the second thing we have to add is flex
and next we have to add justify center
so we have flexed the display
and we have added justify content
so that the content will be in the center
of the whole page
and we will enter the item
and the whole content will be in the center
after this we will add backdrop blur
so whatever class you can see
I am adding dots here
so what is this
vs code will automatically put it in the class name
ok so this is a shortcut to give
we will do backdrop blur
so what it will do
it will blur the image at the back
what md will do
it will blur a little bit
if you add lg it will blur a little more
if you add xl it will blur more
ok
then the last thing we will give is overflow hidden
so that the page is not scroll
the overflow will be hidden
now we will enter it
so see the div is made
the whole class we added has come
right
and this div
we will put this div below the google login div
so the google login will come in this div
ok so the google login button will come in the whole page
it will come in the center
and after this the margin auto will come in the middle
justify content center is given
so now you have understood all these things
right
now as soon as we go to our web page
so as soon as I come to the web page
so here you will see
that this whole thing is ready
like the login page
you can see that it is blurred at the back
right
the whole screen is being covered
and the whole overflow is hidden
so the overflow is not happening here
and if you press in google login method
so see this
this popup opens
and see the logo above
the one with the portfolio builder
you can see that too
so now what we will do
to make it look better
we will add a text below it
sample text
so now we go to our
vs code
and after going here
this one sample text
it can be something like this
here you have seen one more thing
this div
we had put
in which we had put these styles
here we have enclosed google login with this
right
now after this what we do here
just below this
we put a simple paragraph
in which nothing
you have written
by signing in you agree to this this this
this is a placeholder kind of
so it will look better
right
after this we do one thing
we go to our web page
and we will go
so see this
its look is coming right
we do continue with google
so here the continue with google
so sorry
google ghost
wesley
as you can see
its not working
so now
we need a client id
ok
so now what we do
we will go
open a new tab
and write here
google cloud consult
we will get our API profile
application id
client id
which we will put in this
then it will work
so here you will go
and at google
cloud platform
you first sign in
As soon as you sign in, something like this will open.
Look here, a project is being written, portfolio builder, which I had already made.
So I open it and here what we do now is create a new project.
What do you do here? You will go back.
Here you will go to this project at the top.
You must be writing either a new project or something like this.
But you must be getting something up there.
You will click here, go to create new project.
And here we give a name to the project.
Okay, we give the name to the project.
Portfolio.
Portfolio site.
Builder.
By doing this, we get some names.
And here who has given the suggestion.
This is not working, so here the suggestions come.
So now we cut it and whatever suggestions are given here.
According to that suggestion, if we go.
So something is coming here.
The name has been invalid.
Letters.
Enter letters.
Numbers.
Okay.
Okay, maybe underscore will not work in this.
So portfolio.
Suggestion has come here.
So let's take this suggestion below.
By hiding the project.
And we took this suggestion like this.
And here you will click create.
You will click create.
Your project will be created here.
So writing creating project is coming.
Okay, now it's created, right?
Now you will select the project.
After selecting, what you have to do?
After selecting, everything will come here.
Project ID etc.
Everything will come here.
Now you have to go to the URL.
You have to remove the home app and write everything here.
APIs.
Apis.
Enter.
You will directly reach the APIs section.
What will come here as soon as you come here?
Credentials.
First you will go to the credentials.
As soon as you go to the credentials.
You see that the same project is selected.
Which you have just made.
And by going to the credentials.
You will go here.
You will click on create credentials.
You will click on OAuth Client ID.
As soon as you click on OAuth Client ID.
The Client ID will be generated here.
Here you have to click on the Configure Consent Screen.
You will click here.
And here you will reach this page.
Here you have to click on external.
And you have to create.
As soon as you create, it will ask you the information of the app.
So give the name of the app.
So we give the name of the app.
Portfolio Builder.
And here.
User Support Email.
So select the email from which you have created your account.
And here.
If you are asking for a photo.
So don't put that.
No problem.
And here.
Finally.
Developer Contact.
So here you put your email again.
gmail.com
Now what you have to do directly from here.
Save and continue.
As soon as you do it.
So after this it happens.
Second thing comes Scopes.
Right.
Here comes Scopes.
You don't have to do anything.
Save and continue.
And don't do anything.
You have to save and continue everything.
And where.
You have to go back to dashboard.
Back to dashboard.
And the work is done.
Everything is done.
After this you have to go to your credentials.
After going to credentials.
What you have to do here.
The OAuth Client ID.
Here you have created.
The account type.
You have to select the web application.
Right.
After selecting the web application.
What I did here.
You know.
I came back.
In credentials.
I pressed create again.
Clicked on OAuth Client ID.
Right.
Selected its web application.
Here you are asking for authorized origins.
From where.
Which is.
Which site you basically want to implement.
Okay.
So our current site.
Its URL is localhost.
So we are saying.
That it is only localhost.
For now.
Let's keep it for that.
When we will deploy the website.
So the URL of our website.
We will put it here.
So this will make it.
Only from the authorized domain.
Google sign in can be done.
So you will do this.
http localhost.
Then we will add another URL.
We will write http.
localhost.
colon.
5173.
Now.
After this.
Okay.
I think.
Here.
Editing.
Yes.
Okay.
So you have to stay in edit.
I had clicked on save from the other side.
After this.
Again.
You have to copy paste the same thing.
Put it down.
Where.
Here.
Add URI.
Okay.
Again.
You have to add a URI.
And.
5.
7.
3.
And you have to add one more thing.
Apart from localhost.
Here.
You have to put.
127.
Dot.
0.
1.
Okay.
One minute.
I'm here.
0.
1.
Yes.
So this is our URL.
What you know now.
That our URL.
That's all.
This is gone.
Okay.
After that.
Let's add another URL.
Here.
5.
1.
7.
3.
5.
1.
7.
3.
Let's remove 5.
1.
7.
3.
You have to configure something like this.
If you don't want to put the localhost above.
Then don't put it.
But I put it.
Okay.
After that.
Here.
You configure it.
Here too.
By configuring something like this.
Let's remove this thing.
Right.
Everything is done.
Let's save.
After saving.
We came.
And here.
See.
Your client ID.
This is gone.
Copy it here.
In the key.
This is a formality.
So you just create it.
There will be no need for it.
So.
Creating API key is happening.
And here it is done.
You close it.
You have copied your client ID.
That's it.
What do you have to do after this?
Now you have to go.
Where?
In the project.
So let's go back to our project.
In VSCode.
And in VSCode.
We have the main.jsx.
Main.jsx.
Here we have.
The Google OAuth provider.
Used.
Isn't it?
Google OAuth provider.
Here.
It has a prop.
By doing client ID.
Client ID.
Your client ID will go to this client ID.
So.
As soon as you paste it.
Your client ID.
So it went here.
But.
One thing.
There is more.
Now.
In any real world application.
Directly.
Not in plain text.
No one stores their keys.
Secure things.
Always.
You.
Dot.
Env.
Means.
Stores in a virtual environment.
And then.
Bring that thing here.
Now.
Let me tell you.
So.
What you do.
First of all.
Go to your.
Side.
Here.
In explorer.
In file explorer.
And.
The source directory.
Here.
You will click.
In blank space.
Which is the lowest.
You will click once.
And here.
You will create a file.
Dot.
Env.
Okay.
This is the outermost.
Right.
This is out of the public too.
Out of everything.
Dot.
Env.
Envm.
Dot.
Envm
For that.
address.
Here.
We will wait before.
We are waiting for the alcohol.
Now.
An.
Going to the.
Long.
Down.
An.
white google client
now as soon as we write this thing
so what happens is that this thing
as soon as your code runs
it will automatically be replaced with .env
now what will be the benefit of this
the benefit of this will be that
it will not appear in the browser in plain text
so any attacker will not be able to steal your API
it is now saved right
so as soon as you write this thing in the client id
so that white google client
we had made a variable here
it will automatically go there
and that thing will not be shown in the browser
ok
so now we have saved this thing
now what do we do
now we go back to our browser
and after going to the browser
now we work
we press continue with google
as soon as we press
here client id is showing
console is showing
is there any problem
ok
gsi logger
the given client id is not found
so here I think
problem
why is it coming let me check
so here it is saying
client id is not found
let us see if we put the right client id
web client 1
right client id is here
once we go back
and check
so I go back
and here
our main.jsx
inside this .env
.env
here once
paste it
now we have pasted it
now after this
once we
check it
let us see once more
ok
I think now
we have copied something wrong
so ok
now we go back
to our browser
browser
we have come to browser
and we
remove it
continue with google
ok
I think
again there is a problem given origin is not allowed for the client id
ok so what is the problem here let me tell you
the problem is that here this 127.0.0.1
it never works so what you have to write here in url
localhost colon 5173 slash login
so here you have to write localhost 127
ok for 127 you have to write localhost and now let's see
what is written here now for now everything
seems to be working and the spelling of login is wrong
ok now login page is coming now see now
the option is coming now as soon as you press continue with techie recon
or you press continue with google now it will show you
ok so it is something like this now as soon as we
confirm continue with techie recon then what will happen is that
basically login is done but you know
it didn't work because after login we didn't specify anything
what should happen after login right so now we will specify that